---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Reflection on the Night at the Museum
categories: [T1, post]
title: N@tM Reflection
author: Evan Aparri
show_tags: true
comments: true
---

# Night at the Museum Reflection

## Goals
The Night at the Museum was an event coordinated by the visual arts and computer science departments to create an opportunity for students to observe and learn from the projects of others while benefiting from their gains. The projects displayed by the Tri 1 APCSP classes utilized two web applications with one designated for Frontend display and one for Backend processing. The two endpoints were linked up via an API developed on the backend, which allows for communication between backend and frontend and ultimately interactive webpages.

## Our Project
Our group created a minesweeper game where individual users need to log in into an account or create an account on the home page. This system is created by our backend API which stores users and their credentials and information in a 2 dimensional python dictionary. Our initial goal was to allow for our user to play the minesweeper game while allowing them to freely store their high scores so long as the website is up, based on the time it took them to complete the board. However, our timer was faulty and as a result, we did not make the leaderboard that would show incorrect data. Will need to continue to improve upon this project because while it is functional, it still has much to be improved.



## Others Group Projects
**Safin, Navan, Alex, Kalani** - Made a motivational quotes website that allows users to like and dislike quotes and also giving them the ability to comment on each individual quote. 

**Alan, Ederick, Liav, Noor, Steven** - Created a calendar that displays date and weather information. Allows users to input and store events on any date and incorporated city-wide weather data via an API.

**Luke** - Created a Quiz program that compiles random questions from a collection of geography, math and SAT prompts. His program has an about page that links to everyone’s fastpage blogs and has a good design.

**Raunak, Tanay, Yuri, Sachit, Harsha** - Created a clock alarm and stopwatch, I thought that is was impressive that they used a custom api to request data from a variety of time of timezones to display times.

**Paaras, Samarth, AJ, Haoxuan** - Developed an api that grabs some motivational quotes from the internet and allows users to vote on their favorite quotes through number counter.

**Peacock Justin, James, Shruti, Joslyn** - Created a tetris game and used an astronomy api to create a table based on city names to provide location details such as longitude latitude and moon traits.

**Advay, Krishiv, Shivansh, Dhruva, Prasith** - Another motivational quotes generator with added motivational features for fitness and atheletic goals.

**Jonathan, Martin, Abdulla, Leonard** - Created a program to return basketball stats of NBA teams, and used an API to get the stats for each team.

**Lyntax Aniket, Soham, Ryan, Lucas** - One api with a dictionary hosted on a flask server that has words and definitions so users can imput it against a word. Which serves to play a hangman game. Which also eliminates letters and dynamically renders the charector.

**Ananya, Sreeja, Aliya, Clair** - Created a Wordle game that uses a custom api and randomly generates a game. Also checks if words are valid are not and informs the user if they are incorrect or not.

**Lily, Ekam, Ishi, Shreyas** - Uses a custom dictionary api of different words and their definitions to allow users to find them and a word of the day that changes. Along with a feedback to adapt the user experience.

**Aiden, Ahad, Dash, Sabine** - Innovative api that has games such as tetris, blackjack, cookie clicker, and a pokemon game with custom to log losses wins, correct answers wrong and other game data.

**Keira, Zeen, Ellie, Giannina** - Made a custom custmoer survey along with a quiz that has three different quizzes for calculus, physics, and satstics, with solutions. Display is randomized with a backend database along with a quiz summary and a customer service api that prompts users with questions to save them.

