---
toc: true
layout: post
description: College Board Performance Task
categories: [T2, post]
title: CPT
author: Evan Aparri
show_tags: true
comments: true
---

## Outline of CPT Written response

3 a.
3.a.i.
The program provides a game helps create a people know who has played games and when they have played so that they can also see who plays frequently or wins the most. 

3.a.ii.
The function of the program is to to all the past pong games from most recent to oldest. 

3.a.iii.
The input will be the usernames of the two players, the score each player earned, the result of each player, and the date the game was played. The output will be the json data that can later be used to create a table sorted from most recent to oldest.

3.b.i.
```
game1 = Pong('AAA', 'BBB', '1', '5', 'Loss', 'Win', date(2023, 1, 22))
game2 = Pong('AAB', 'ABC', '2', '5', 'Loss', 'Win', date(2023, 1, 21))
game3 = Pong('AAC', 'GHI', '5', '4', 'Win', 'Loss', date(2023, 1, 20))
game4 = Pong('AAD', 'FGH', '5', '1', 'Win', 'Loss', date(2023, 1, 19))
game5 = Pong('AAE', 'TYU', '3','5', 'Loss', 'Win', date(2023, 1, 22))

games = [game1, game2, game3, game4, game5]
```

3.b.ii.
```
"""Builds sample user/note(s) data"""
for game in games:
    try:
        user.create()
    except IntegrityError:
        '''fails with bad or duplicate data'''
        db.session.remove()
        print(f"Records exist, duplicate email, or error in {game.user1} and/or {game.user2}")
```

3.b.iii.
THe variable being used to store the dictionary is `body`

3.b.iv.
The data that my list contains represents a game that was played in pong.

3.b.v.
The dictionary in the variable body helps to create separate, distinct packets of information specifically for each game played. Without the use of this dictionary, the database would not be able to distinguish which game users participate in. This can make the program code harder to create as there would have to be a separate, more complex algorithm which manually sorts the data already present in the database.

3.c.i.
(Will likely show the update function that updates the player's highscore) This code will likely change because our group is still deciding whether a user can have multiple scores on the leaderboard

3.c.ii.
(Will show above function being called)

3.c.iii.
The function takes the new score obtained by a user from their game and compares it to see if their score is greater their high score. If it is, then it replaces it if it does then it replaces the high score. If it isn't, then it doesn't replace the high score.

3.c.iv.
(TBD)

3.c.v.
(TBD)

3.d.i.
First example will be when the users inputs a score that is not part of the top 5.


Second example will be when the user reaches a score in the top 5 and replaces the previous holder and pushes the rest down.

3.d.ii.
Condition 1:
(Will show score #1 being passed through an if statement deciding whether a score is higher than another)

Condition 2:
(Will show score #2 being passed through an if statement deciding whether a score is higher than another)

3.d.iii.
Results #1:
The result of the first call will display the rank of the user's score without it being displayed on the top 5 leaderboard.

Result #2:
The result of the second call will display the rank of the user's score while also being displayed on the top 5 leaderboard.